#summary History of the world in Ares

= Introduction =

The game takes place in 2033. In this section we list the history of events preceeding 2033.

 * *12 April 2027*: Earth is attacked by surprise by a big alien force. Lots of alien spaceships were hiding behind the moon and they attacked most major earth cities. Many big cities were completely or partially destroyed by light radioactive explosions. This was done with a big number of smaller explosive weapons. Due to this many cities were only partially destroyed because human defense mechanism managed to destroy a few of these projectiles after the first explosions.
 * *13 April 2027*: After the initial surprise humankind manages to completely fire up its defense mechanism and manages to prevent further destruction. Nevertheless millions of people have died and the chaos is huge.
 * *April-May 2027*: the fight is intense in this period. Alien explosives keep pounding the earth but most get deflected by the earth defense system. Humankind has not yet managed to get into offensive yet.
 * *June 2027*: Earth manages it's first offensive strike and they manage to destroy one of the alien bigger vessels. It doesn't really help to stop the alien attacks though.
 * *2028*: during entire 2028 the fight continues but the aliens can't manage to cause much more damage anymore.
 * *2029*: out of desperation the aliens change tactics and land on earth. They try to occupy territory gradually. Of course this is 'alien' territory for them and generally the aliens have a hard time keeping their ground despite their superior technology.
 * *2030*: by this time many aliens and humans realize the war is going nowhere fast and mini-aliances are being made.
 * ...