#summary Alien and human technology.

= Introduction =

== Human Technology ==

 * Limited cloacking technology
 * Biological technology, bug spies, ...

== Alien Technology ==

 * Energy weapons

== Hybrid Technology ==

This is technology that came into existance after humans tried to reverse engineer alien technology and combine it with their own. Most of this hybrid technology is not very powerful but it is very flexible and many different things can be [Crafting crafted].

== Weapons ==

Here is an initial list of the types of weapons we can have:

 * *Alien*: Bullets and grenades filled with acid (rifles/pistols and grenade launchers that use them). Effective for armor piercing.
 * *Human*: Ultracold Plasma weapons.Freezes the enemy to death.
 * *Human*: Electrolaser weapons.Inflicts electroshock damage via a laser beam.
 * *Human*: Heat wave weapons.Hits the enemy with a beam of unbearable heat.
 * *Alien*: Pulsed Energy Projectile (PEP weapons).Plasma ray that causes pain and stuns the enemy.
 * *Human*: X-Ray Beam weapons.Inflicts damage from radiation.
 * *Alien*: Ultrasonic weapons.Exposes the enemy to ultrasound.
 * *Alien*: High-Energy Radio frequency weapons.Causes heat damage.
 * *Alien*: Particle beam weapons.Produces a stream of accelerated particles moving at near the speed of light.
 * *Human*: Improved versions of classic bullet shooting guns.

Weapon modifications:

 * Common scope
 * Mass sensor enhanced scope
 * Heat sensor enhanced scope
 * Motion sensor enhanced scope
 * Human silencer
 * Alien silencer
 * Extended alien energy cell magazines type A
 * Extended alien energy cell magazines type B
 * Improved capacity battery barrels (human) type A
 * Improved capacity battery barrels (human) type B
 * Alien to Human energy transfomer (allows to use alien energy cells)
 * Human to Alien energy transformer

When a player uses alien modifications/parts in a human weapon some characteristics of the weapon worsen automaticaly while some combinations are not possible at all. I thought that it will be great if combining two weapon types in one gun was made possible. For example a X-Ray beam weapon that damages the enemy with an additional electrolaser beam which of course will deal much less damage.