#summary Main page for Ares Information.

= Introduction =

The goal of Project Ares is to make three things:

 * AresEd: A world editor specific for Ares (can't be used as a generic world editor for other CS apps) in which you can make a game world and define the game logic.
 * A game player that can play games created by the editor.
 * An actual [AresGame game] that uses this technology.

= Contents =

Note: the links that are marked 'slightly outdated' are still relevant and useful. They were not recently updated however and may contain information that is slightly wrong.

 * General
   * [Team The Team]
   * [VideoBlog Ares Video Blog]: a blog showing important milestones in the development of this project.
   * [Todo Highlevel Todo]: check here if you want to find something to do (incomplete).
   * [DetailedTodo Detailed Todo (slightly outdated)]: a detailed explanation of various tasks. Most of this is still very relevant.
   * [Glossary]: this is a list of many abbreviations you will find in this wiki.
 * The Game
   * [AresGame Ares Story and Game]: short summary of the story.
   * [AresHistory History]: history of the game world. What happened before.
   * [AresWorld World]: the world, geography, levels, ...
   * [AresScience Science and Technology]: all science and technology available in 2033 (includes human and alien technology).
   * [AresNPCs NPCs]: a list of all NPCs.
   * [AresQuests Quests]: a list of all story quests.
   * [Crafting Crafting]: how crafting works.
 * The Editor
   * [AresEdManual AresEd User Manual (slightly outdated)]: the manual of AresEd. Since AresEd is in heavy development this gets outdated soon. Expect this to stabilize in the future.
 * For Artists
   * [ArtPipeLine The Art Pipeline]: if you are an artist then this is the page for you.
   * [AresWorldBuilding General World Building]: information on how to build worlds in Ares and the kinds of assets we need.
   * [AssetList List of assets]: here is a list of all assets that we need and already have.
 * For Programmers
   * [AresBuilding How to build Ares]: if you are a programmer then this is the page for you.
   * [Architecture CS/CEL/Architecture Discussion]: a general overview of the Ares architecture.
   * [TechDoc Technical Documentation]: other technical information related to Ares and CEL.