#summary Video blog for Ares development

= Video Blog =

== 13 Februari 2012 ==

This is my fourth Ares Video Blog entry. A lot has changed since the last video blog. In this demonstration I show how you can make a simple (very simple) game using AresEd. A few disclaimers:
  * AresEd is work in progress. There are still bugs and the user interface could be better.
  * My microphone isn't good. Sound quality is not that good.
  * The video encoder I used apparently caused a choppy framerate. AresEd runs much smoother in reality.
  * I cut away a part in the middle where something wasn't working properly :-)
<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVPXiD4QcQM"/>

== 23 October 2011 ==

This latest video is a remake of my old AresEd video. It is made using better technology (no more video camera of my laptop screen) and shows a few new features (moving foliage/grass and some editing improvements). <g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O94HVzPm6HY"/>

== 12 October 2011 ==

This video is more technical and demonstrates how CEL supports lots of entities (about 10 million) with clever bookkeeping and managing of (modified) state. <g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0H6UnKwuzAM"/>


== 11 April 2011 ==

In this video we demonstrate the basic functionality of the AresEd game editor. This is obviously work in progress and the video was also made using a video camera. So not very high quality. <g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d3wlNbHheY4"/>